# Input from Practitioners Group for Advisory Committee

- AC target meeting: 2025-12-08

### solidcommunity.net

- Practitioners have consensus about the importance of prioritizing production-ready open-source Solid server over closed source.
- Invest resources towards production-ready open-source CSS for solidcommunity.net.
- Plan to Revamp NSS and/or replace it with a simple Solid server. CSS is a research server with unnecessary complexity. (Rahul's preference: decouple from Solid-OS, which should be a separate WebApp)

### Current Funding

- Set up remote paid Solid ODI roles. Loosen the requirement of UK residence which is exclusive and incompatible with the participation of a global community.
- Seek legal means to disburse the grants funds to people working significant contributions to the Solid Ecosystem
- Investigate part time remote and contractor roles.
- TBL: ODI works with physical attendance, hence you have to be in UK. ODI can still fund other things. ODI could give money to someone in other country. It's only employees who are in UK.

- ODI grant covers areas that have been or can be a domain of Practitioners. We need to clarify boundaries between ODI and Practitioners/between volunteers and paid staff. If possible, resources should be allocated for Practitioners to work on the grant items within Practitioners' domain (mentoring, education, community, Catalog, social good applications, advocacy, ...). If not possible, clarify how ODI envisions collaboration that won't lead to volunteer burn-out or resentment.

### Future funding

- With NLNet funding that many efforts depend on stops in 2027, can ODI start a process to create a pool of funds to disseminate as grants to independent developers working on Solid?
- Ensure that the funds could be even more inclusive? (NLNet was only able to serve EU citizens). ODI could collaborate with NLNet to build on NLNet's existing experience.

### Onboarding new people

- When onboarding new folks, provide pathways for, and celebrate non-technical contributions (see https://allcontributors.org/emoji-key/ for a large list of contribution areas)
- Provide mechanisms for non-technical people to bring use-cases for product specifications using Solid

### Mentorship

- ODI grant requires expanding mentorship. Newcomers need support to get acquainted with the technology. ODI should think about growing a pool of mentors, in particular from Practitioners.
- Volunteer time is limited and contributors are typically already busy with work that they are bringing to Solid. Consider allocating funds to compensate experienced volunteers to take on the additional burden of mentorship.
- TBL: This is what you can bring Jeff to AC: more mentors.

---

- Set up a channel for newcomer support. [Th]
- Pairing sessions matching.

### Examples

- Lots of demand for coding help. ODI will help practitioners with coding days.
- ODI has set up a website for coding examples.
- RG thinks examples are too complex. I would first start with fetch and then a simple rdf library (a first principles approach).
- Jeff (probably) would start with his webcomponents (RG: should be step 2)

### Dev server

- Create a service where one can paste CSS JSON config and spin a temporary dev server [thhck].
- Can anyone at ODI help Luke convince RedHat to use Solid?
- Can ODI collaborate with the [Oxide](https://oxide.computer/) project to create drop-in self-hosted deployments [RG].

### Solid certification

- Would ODI consider providing Solid certification? This will provide visibility of Solid experts to the world. HAM Radio as a model [ST].

### solid-contrib

- Maintain ownership of GitHub org by trusted community representatives.

### Open hours

- Set up regular open ODI hours (call) for direct live communication between Solid community and ODI.

### More ODI/community engagement

- ODI devs should be interacting in matrix and the forum to provide visibility of ODI efforts and to allow for community input
