# Solid Practitioners

## Meetng Date
* 2024-04-15

## Facilitator 
* Jeff Zucker - dubzed@gmail.com

## Scribe
* Frederick Gibson - frederick@graphmetrix.com

## Participants (please add yourself)
* Jackson Morgan (JM) - jackson@o.team
* mariha (Maria Kozińska) (MK)
* Tim Berners-Lee (TBL)
* Helen Oliver
* Wilfred Pinfold (WP)
* Jeff Zucker (JZ)
* Talita
* Frederick Gibson (FG) - frederick@graphmetrix.com
* Rahul Gupta
* Kirah
* [michal/mrkvon](https://id.mrkvon.org)
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him) ([OpenLink Software](https://www.openlinksw.com/)) (TT)
* Tim Standen (TS)

## Agenda

* Announcements
  * Call for Scribe

* New Member Check-in (brief intro, current work)

* Special Topic — Digital Signatures

WP: Example: Ideally robust digital id — community of houseless people — with drivers license create digital signature — need to insure validity of documents being shared

MK: Many applications on same pod, can have digital signature for the application.

JM: Main need is for provenance — final creator and delegates of content. Everything on solid should have provenance (that is, all signed). Provenance on per-triple attribute would be ideal. Minimum provenance on per-doc basis.

JZ: What is needed for these use cases and in long run, what is needed in specs

JM: Short term standards for applications to accept signed data.

FG: Can use current solid approach with in-pod events at triple level changes to track provenance

WP: Issue is when user can change authenticated document

TBL: Case worker is the authority to authenticate a document — refugee can keep digitally signed document at some point even if original signers no longer around.

WP: Yes, thats the case. Case worker as authenticator and signor for documents such as the drivers license. Need enduring proof that document is authentic.

JZ: TBL how are you using digital signatures in chat

TBL: With chat provenance is a real issue — with key signature (public/private key), can authenticate every message. Binds the key to the author's pod. 

JM: You could derive provenance from the pod, but there might be adverse pods.

TBL: It's a digital signature on message — a binary. Like an html file with a link/checksum. Same approach as Matrix. Solid is a very generic data space — making assumptions is difficult about. People might not trust data on government pods because they don't trust the government — many different situations.

FG: Group pods...  If group pod has a webid and members are authenticated with their webids, then you can authenticate all the messages

JM: However, if the controller of a group pod is malicious, they could intervene

FG: With our approach, the history can't be changed, but the controller could remove permissions of the group to see changes they made, but then there would be an event with that controller making a change so it could be spotted by the group.

TBL: Security agencies can subpoena things...

WP: Digital signature on everything would solve the problem

MV: SolidGit — on Matrix

TT: Also see [Credible Web CG](https://credweb.org/)

MV: How it works to sign messages — how to sign different represenations with rdf

TT: Can convert to canonical form and hash that. [RDF Canocalization and Hashing WG](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/rch/)

TBL: RDF canonicalization hashes solve the signature problem

JM: Important to securely store public and private keys

FG: How is private key stored — yubikeys?

TBL: Browser can get at keys; Matrix has an approach. Maybe a key just for a particular conversation — and don't worry about where it's stored. Its an important question — securing the private keys.

WP: Most approaches have a secure enclave for this purpose. Most phones have that. Don't want to use private key much — even with hardware access can't get at the key.

JZ: Tim, how is private key stored now with chat?

TBL: No magic way of making private key more secure now.

