 # Solid Practitioners

## Meeting Date
* 2024-01-08


## Facilitator 
* Jeff Zucker - dubzed@gmail.com

## Scribe
* Tim Standen

## Participants (please add yourself)

## Attendees
  - Jeff Zucker
  - Frederick Gibson
  - Kai Gilb
  - Mariha
  - Dan
  - David H. Mason
  - Wilfred Pinfold

# Dan: Symantex Presentation

  - Dan inspired by trip to San Francisco, where he wanted to write a book.
  - Difficult to keep track of all the elements that went into the book in a visual, interactive, intuitive way.
  - Liked TimBL's idea on linked data, Solid, RDF
  - Attracted to the values of Solid
## Semantyk
  - Goal: build a Notion-like knowledge management system
  - Personal knowledge management system
  - "Hypermedia API"
  - Knowledge Management System for decentralized linked data with interactive and intuitive visualizations
### Questions
  - Link: https://www.semantyk.com/
  - Fred: Is it a server or an app?
    - Dan: Multiplatform App
  - Fred: How are you modeling the data? What ontologies are you using?
    - Dan: First Goal is an SKOS vocabulary. Interface Design Vocabulary
    - Using Protegee, Tamara Munzner's research

# New People Introduction

  ## David H. Mason
    Works for the government of Canada, trying to find good places/projects to use the semantic web.
  ### Project: Solid Lite
    - Web is overly complex. Could be more intuitive for the end user
    - Trying to build better testing steps

# What Should the focus of Solid Practitioners Be?

  - Go over specific pain points of Solid projects
  - Bring on speakers to discuss specific points of Solid/decentralized tech
  - Tim: Onboarding developers
  - Wilf: Connect to different distributed tech (e.g. data swift, Beck'n). How can we solve practical problems in distributed information architectures?
  - Jeff: Present specific problem areas that are faced by an application
  - Dan: Sense of a "SoLiD" Architecture. Render Apps with Solid Data
  - Fred Gibson: Need standard APIs. Search APIs, Server Event APIs
  - Wilf: Set up a priority list of features needed by Solid App builders

# Future Meetings:
  - PASS presents on the largest pain points it encountered in its apps
  - Dan presents on several of his topics
    - Architecture
    - Common Shapes
  - Fred presents on Search in TrinPod

