# Solid Practitioners

## Meeting Date

- 2025-11-20, 15:00 UTC

## Details

- call https://meet.jit.si/solid-practitioners
- chat https://matrix.to/#/#solid-practitioners:matrix.org
- repo https://github.com/solid-contrib/practitioners
- recordings https://spectra.video/c/solid_practitioners/videos

## Facilitator

- Michal

## Scribe

- Luke

## Participants (please add yourself)

- TimBL
- Jeff Zucker
- [Luke Dary](https://w3c.social/@lukedary)
- Theo @thhck
- elf Pavlik
- [Rui Zhao](https://me.ryey.icu)
- [Rahul Gupta](https://cxres.pages.dev/profile#i)
- Stephen Taylor
- [Johns Beharry](https://pxpush.com)
- Marc Haddle (https://marc.haddle@datasolids.com)
- [Michal](https://id.mrkvon.org)
-

## Agenda

### Short check-in round

in a few sentences, how are you doing today, not minuted

### Administrative

- Call to add self to hackmd
- Call for Scribe
- ~~Objections to recording the session? (are we recording?)~~

### New member check-in

- Johns - art director, prior software engineer, joined the Solid Symposium in April. Structured data and social networking were a focus, and wanted to see what it looked like. St Lucia. Chatted with Jesse and saw there was a lot of academic activity. Growing ecosystem through making it accessible.

### Announcements

- Upcoming meetings:
  - Dec. 4 - Access Controls & Community Content Standards, see https://hackmd.io/@dtb23/SyWsIvljll
- [Catalog](https://solidproject.solidcommunity.net/catalog/): ODI, and Practitioners involvement
- Off-week coding hour where practitioners could get practical help with their coding needs. Well-received proposal; helping onboard newcomers
- Jeff stepping back on leadership of Practitioners; no timeline or extent. Also as maintainer of catalog.

### Practitioners' roadmap & feedback to ODI

**Questions and ideas**

1. Reflection
   - What role has Practitioners group played for me?
   - What has worked well?
   - What have I been missing?
1. Future
   - What can we do in Practitioners in the next 1-2 years? Focus has been on featuring projects. Do we want to keep this focus, or extend it? How? Meetings or beyond (mentorship, education, community, ...)?
1. Ecosystem/Bigger picture
   - How do I see our group's role in changing Solid ecosystem? Where do Practitioners fit in the new organization with ODI leadership? How do we fit with the grant that overlaps with our focus?
1. Feedback for ODI
   - What issues are important for us at the moment?
   - How can ODI support Practitioners (and vice-versa)?

**Responses**

- **Reflection**:
  - Outsider view, finding catalog is helpful. Meant a lot to see what others are working on. Non-programmer, keeping a finger in the game. Real-world use cases. Solid enough? Are we a governance board? What makes Practitioners and CG different? Elmers have job of supporting newcomers. In Solid newcomers can be overwhelmed? Is this a group of Solid Elmers/mentors?
  - _Positives_: diverse experiences.
  - _Missing_: onboarding, size of community. Larger community, more code or examples, a group for the management of Solid projects (Project and Product management specifically); lacking in simplicity
- **Future**: try to provide guidance, or better guidance.
- **Ecosystem**
- **ODI Feedback**

* Theo: I always dream of service where we can drop CSS configuration, and copy paste JSON config, and a server pops up to try stuff. This would help developers try stuff.
* NLNet funding stops in 2027. There are a lot of community members bringing value. If ODI can follow up on that and bring funding to independent developers working on Solid.
* eP: are you talking about hosting CSS, or aout easy way to deploy it anywhere?
* Theo: Fully online, I don't think it would cost too much the disposable instance. Engineer time may be most expensive.
* Rahul: ODI is already doing CSS going forward. Can we look on collaborating with people on \_\_\_ project: Open source deployment
* Luke: I'm hoping with Red Hat if we can get Solid as background for user data, if we can have server for that, but convincing peple internally has been difficult
* Michal: since the funding has to stay within ODI, how does it get tapped by external entities; given the grant, how does it work between who is paid and who is a volunteer.
* Stephen: ODI-provided certification, with Practitioners feeding the standards back to ODI
* elf Pavlik: lots of ongoing work on wallet-based certifications.
* Discussion about how the grant is only distrubuted to employees of ODI versus other contributors
* Tim: ODI works with physical attendance, hence you have to be in UK. ODI can still fund other things. ODI could give money to someone in other country. It's only employees who are in UK.
* Rahul: There is a need to expand mentorship. There are a lot of people who are interested but won't be able to get into Solid without some hand-holding. It has been a human-capital constraint. I'd like ODI to think about increasing pool of mentors, e.g. from Practitioners. We can only give so much time if we volunteer. The grant requires expanding mentorship. There will be some hard questions about resource allocation.
* Tim: This is what you can bring Jeff to AC: more mentors.
* Pavlik: grants are ongoing issue for projects. NLNet was prioritizing EU. Google grant is a ship that has sailed. But in the future providing something even more inclusive than NLNet, that is a big topic. There are not existing answers, but I would look in the future for that.
* Rahul: How can we replace NLNet funding by 2027
* eP: working with NLNet who have a lot of experience. they have infrastructure and people. EU had privilege though. Work with projects like NLNet to build on existing experience.
