# Solid Practitioners - 2025-07-03

## Meeting Date

- 2025-07-03

## Details

- call https://meet.jit.si/solid-practitioners
- chat https://matrix.to/#/#solid-practitioners:matrix.org
- repo https://github.com/solid-contrib/practitioners
- recordings https://spectra.video/c/solid_practitioners/videos

## Facilitator

- Jeff Zucker - dubzed@gmail.com

## Scribe

- teamwork

## Participants (please add yourself)

- [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
- [Matthias Evering](https://solidweb.me/testpro/)
- [Rahul Gupta](https://cxres.pages.dev/profile#i)
- [Frederick Gibson](https://graphmetrix.com)
- [Michal](https://id.mrkvon.org)
- Rui
- Tom
- Erich

## Agenda

- Announcements

  - Call for Scribe

- New Member Check-in (brief intro, current work)

- Elf Pavlik - Solid Efforts

- Rui - Question about remembering app auth in CSS/Pivot/solidcommunity.net

## What's been up to

### Jeff

Catalog

### Matthias

keep solidweb.org, solidweb.me, [teamid.live](https://teamid.live) running / no data insurance possible

### Rahul

Working towards publishing the first draft of Events Query.

### Fred

We're currently onboarding large copper mine with 70+ facilities. They have 1000s of systems with tags. We have added rule systems with RDF rules and translate tags and do search on them.

### Tom

Working on Food distribution project connecting suppliers with consumers, in Maryland area.

### Rui

I've been on holiday. This week I'm refactoring the projects, including the one I showed last time.

## Summer break?

- Jeff: Shall we do summer break? We don't have speakers aligned.
- Tom: Idea: one meeting a month?
- Rahul: I'm willing to organize August meeting.
- Pavlik: Please let me know, to update CG calendar.

## Tom's Food distribution project

- Jeff: Tom will have students collaborating on the project, and would like to know what resources there are for them.
- I'd like to propose we make mentorship for them, introductory online meeting, ...
- Fred: Can we hear more about the entire project?
- Tom: This is in Baltimore are, there are number of orgs stepping in to supply fresh fruits & vegetables. There wil be food banks and purchasable items. Also urban farms and suppliers. Connect these groups using Solid for distribution. Notifications for consumers about what's available, as well as allowing orders, distrubution via trucks, and transportation for people as it is also an issue in area.
- At this point we're in the process of converting current corporate organization (?) to socially beneficial organization. This will be the first effort for the project. We're meeting with different vendors, some potential pod providers, and technical organizations to find resources for different areas, meeting with University of Massechussets, onboarding for Solid. We've identified 6 developers, students.
- We want to be able to develop documents, podcasts, etc. to give people introduction to Solid.
- Rahul: Tom, what's your timeline for onboarding these students? When do we organize that? August, September, October?
- Jeff: Doing it on Practitioners is definitely an option, other is a dedicated meeting.
- Tom: September would be fine. I'm planning to meet with the University in August. I'm ok with both Practitioners and dedicated meeting.
- Pavlik: It's question about your strategy. Is it more about exploring use-case for Solid, or is there some time-sensitive aspects? Mention Open Food Network, originally developed in Australia. If something needs to be done immediately, I'd deploy Open Food Network, then explore including in it to Solid. What's your priority? Using something right away, or having long-term Solid implementation?
- Tom: I contacted Maxime from Open Food Network and I've been aware of their effort. Our plan is to develop a pilot in next 1-2 months, based on work that Maxime's group has done. We're looking to establish a location which will take approximately a year. We have some rudimentary connections with farms and supppliers with distribution in 9 months. We want something stable in a pilot in approximately 9 months.
- Rahul: Are you able to disclose funding and what's available? You have very ambitious timeline and significant project. What's the resources?
- Tom: We apply for multiple grants. Also crediting some existing businesses that will generate revenue that will feedback into the larger project. Also we talk with local mutual banks.
- eP: I see one of the challenges of Solid, that we need to build everything new. Imo there is even more potential if existing FOSS projects adopt Solid. If the existing Open Food Network can become Solid compatible... these groups have years of UX. We have challenge in building great UX. If we don't get good UX, we'll not be usable. FOSS may become Solid compliant. It's a comment about strategy.
- Tom: I'm not in favor of building everything from scratch. We've contacted different organizations in the area, who build their standalone applications. We have a challenge how do we bridge the data silos, without redoing much of the code. We want to use Solid as a bridge between different apps/capabilities that are out there currently.
- Rahul: How do you envsion using Solid in your larger scheme?
- Tom: I want to match our strategy with Solid's strategy. I've given you a broad picture. On your convenience in September I can share more. I can see each farm having Pod with information, what's available. Allowing different people to see what's available for harvest, for supply. What we'll be able to source locally vs. purchased from suppliers coming from other areas. Other are non-revenue distrubition of Food banks. Unfortunately they don't advertise what's available. It's important to know for people what's available where you're going. Each user can have their own pod, and organizations publish what's available, ..., and this platform can be a bridge for those who don't have IT infrastructure, take that information, expose it on Solid Pod and make it available for larger community.
- Rahul: That's a lot to think about.
- Jeff: The homework for everyone is thinking what each of you can contribute in mentorship. We could have a preparation session + mentoring, or go right into mentoring. We'll figure that out as we come closer.
- elf Pavlik: I'll share a lint to Value Flows: http://mikorizal.org/history.html that can be also interesting for you.

## elf Pavlik: Solid Efforts

https://elf-pavlik.github.io/solid-efforts/#/

Recording. [add link]
