# Solid Practitioners

## Meetng Date
* 2025-01-16

## Facilitator 
* Jeff Zucker - dubzed@gmail.com

## Scribe
* Christoph Braun (uvdsl)

## Participants (please add yourself)
- [TallTed // Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com)
- Marc
- Brandon
- Christoph (CB)
- Josh
- [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
- Theo thhck https://liquid.surf
- Kai
- Espen
- [Rahul](https://cxres.pages.dev/profile#i)
- Wilfred
- Geir
- Jesse (JW)
- [Michal](https://id.mrkvon.org) ([SolidCouch](https://github.com/solidcouch))

## Agenda

* Announcements
    * Call for Scribe
    * Practitioners video PeerTube repo at https://spectra.video/c/solid_practitioners
    * Call for Symposium speakers https://cxres.inrupt.net/public/SoSy25/solid-together/
    * Call for Solid World speakers https://forum.solidproject.org/t/solid-world-presenters/8590/1
    * Call for special topics on Mobility & Healthcare

* New Member Check-in (brief intro, current work)  

  - JZ: Welcome to the group. Let's do an introduction round! Tell us what you are doing at the moment!
  - TT: Not direct practitioner — but always poking at PRs.
  - Marc: Data Solids — use case on health records to allow to be aggregated across multiple systems and to store it in users' Pods. Brandon is with me today, been working on the architecture for import/export of data in Pods and certificates.
  - Brandon: Directly working with Solid, trying to familiarise myself with CSS. Trying to fit all the pieces together to do authenticated fetches to Pods. (And made lots of progress since last time.)
  -  CB: PhD student at KIT, Karlsruhe, Germany. Working with Solid in the financial domain. Intreseted in identity management and access delegation.
  - Josh: Not directly working on Solid - but coming from ODRL - integration f protocols for authorization
  - elfPavlik: Mostly working on AppInterop, and CoChair for the CG. https://elf-pavlik.github.io/solid-efforts/#/person?id=https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net
  - Theo: Solid Tools to improve UX/DX, mostly with CSS. Today, I was wondering how we can use CSS to connect to Firebase/supabase i.e. backend-as-a-service.
  - Kai: [GraphMetrix](https://graphmetrix.com/) - we build TrinPods, and applications to work ontop in the construction industry.
  - Espen: [i4 Technology](https://www.i4-technologies.com/) working with TrinPod on their system, building apps mainly for the construction industry, to help hospitals to get a better overview over their capacity.
  - RG: Been involved in standards work with Solid. Announcement of Solid Together, a session at the Solid Symposium in April (in Leiden). See also the link in the announcements above.
 
 
- PeerTube
    - JZ: Created a PeerTube for the group, Josh's presentation on ODRL, the presentation on ActivityPods, the presentation on Notifications, on indexing have all been recorded and are available via the link in the announcements.
    - JZ: This should be a place for recording of our meetings, but also for demo videos of members from this group. So, get in touch with me.

- Call for speakers for Solid World
    - JZ: Solid World is an online meeting facilitated by ODI. If anyone wants to speak there, get in touch with Jesse!

- Special Topic Meetings
    - Health Care (upcoming)
    - Mobility and Transportation (upcoming)
    - JZ: If anyone is interested, get in touch. We want this to be vertical - we want to focus on the domain, bring in domain experts and technical experts, and discuss not only what is being done but also what needs to be done.
    - JZ: We should also be looking at what they already do, which might have the Solid idea, though not using Solid technology.

- AOB
    - JZ: Anyone?
    - RG: Congratulation to elf Pavlik to CG CoChair!
    - all: *applause*
    - JZ: There has been chat about a FedCM meeting?
    - Theo: Been not too active lately; need to catch up a little bit. But I am generally happy to see the enthusiasm of the group for this. One crucial point of the FedCM standard is ...?
    - eP: IdP registration - https://github.com/w3c-fedid/idp-registration
    - eP: We should discuss how indyAuth handles this, we should have a dedicated meeting.
    - JW: We want to harmonise with other specs that are out there, specifically what the authentication protocol looks like. I want to look into if a shared spec for authentication makes sense, and one piece to look at is FedCM. Question: Should Solid migrate to FedCM? I dont know if this is even a question. And: What are the differences between Solid specs and other specs out there? And: Speaking to other communities and get community alignment through discussion. To inform that discussion, it would be good to have an overview of all the different options.
    - eP: We did discuss this briefly yesterday in the CG call. It can improve UX in the browser, it still needs to rely on some underlying mechanism. IndyAuth shows this. Uses FedCM underneath. Maybe we can use something similar for Solid. The underlying mechanism is not limited to FedCM. You could also include authorization scopes in the token, and the IDP would then render some Popup to handle the authorization. And there are propsal specs to integrate digital credentials. Very active community. Mostly for improving UX in browser.
    - CB: For SSI, I've been working on it for 3 years, for example with VCs. We can have the talk about it, it is not easy to get it right. It gets hard to implement it in a way that everyone is happy with the security.
    - RG: How does this work relate to Verifiable Credentials (VCs) at W3C and to SPICE at IETF that work on digital credentials?
    - eP: To partially answer: One of the most recent changes was moving from global authorization token to an identity token that is exchanged for an access token (following UMA) to then talk to a resource server. But only the Inrupt ESS, and Java Solid-OIDC client seem to implement this. But by spec it is intended that the client can push some claim to an authorization server and get an access token.
    - RG: I am trying to see if others have already done work that we think of. So we do not need to do work twice.
    - JZ: There is also quite a bit discussion about WAC and acl:origin. Anyone intereseted hop over to the specification channel!
    - eP: If anyone using acl:origin in your work? That would be valuable input for the CG?
    - CB: We looked at it and decided not to rely on `acl:origin` and CORS in general. Once you make request from a backend one can't rely on Origin header. We have in browser apps but as well as back end services that are being used.
    - JZ: I kinda used `acl:origin` in my personal setup, I do not allow any origins.
    - CB: In our discussion, we were looking for a way to identify the client that is sending the request on behalf of the user. Also how to restrict which client has access to the data.
    - eP: I am trying to find an answer to that question as well. I will link to an issue I opened. In that scenario, in which the resource owner and end-user is same or different. There are nouances in who restricts the app usage / client. There could also be the resource owner be restricting which apps/clients can consume the data (selecting the client for the enduser). For me, the important part is the case where the resource owner and end user are not the same.
    - JZ: I like the general plug: What is the practitioneers' opinion on this? Having consitency in this 
    - Jeff: I think that the security you are trying to implement around the authn and authz should start with what you are trying to do and then you can look at solutions. It would be great if you could choose which level is suitable for your use case.
    - JZ: It's an important point.
    - Marc: I have another Topic: In our projects, when it comes to data, the people are not aware what data they generate, where it is stored, where it is going, and what happens. Solid seems to be the only project that really gives users contorl over their data. If data is on someone else's server, the user has no control. There is a power imbalance. I can grab my data, but I cannot move it. But with Solid, having your data in your Pod, you can move it around. the user now has capabilities that they did not have that before, they do now have custody over their data. At scale. And we are pushing this forward because the timing is good now.
    - Jeff: When I started to look at Solid, I hear that original idea was to get back control over data from Facebook et al. Is that still the thing?
    - JZ: It used to be, and it is the most prominent use case. As it was indicated by Social Linked Data, the initial acronym. But that was dropped some years ago to not be too focussed on the social media domain, the broader picture is __social__ in the sense of how people interoperate.
    - Jeff: I was really existed when people tried to do that, and a bit disappointed when it wasn't deployed. This tool/platform is really for people to control/manage their data. It needs more visibility
    - TT: Re-decentralisation was one of the big ideas of Solid - everyone can store their own data and can read from others' server. That does not scale. None of this is trivial. The idea of saving your social media server is not going to happen because the apps pay for themselves using the data that you produce. You are the product. The best thing you can do invent new similar things that are better. Building a group server for messaging that is doable. But when you want it to be discoverable by others, then it gets a challenge. This is the sort of problem that has never been even philosophically/conceptually solved, let alone technically.
    - Jeff: I agree - we do need to step back but the Pod concept has the capability to do that and storage is needed (which is cheap) but maybe not on Facebook scale. At least there are some possiblities now.
    - RG: I recommend TimBLs design issues, e.g. https://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/CloudStorage.html from 2009. Second, this might be a philosophical one: The way technology evolves throughout time is that you need to enable things that are not possible with existing technology. Otherwise, the technology will not be adopted. We are only starting to see some examples emerging in the Solid ecosystem, e.g. in the health domain, it allows for greater value being created that is not possible with existing technology.
    - Marc: Yes, and the users' do not have control over the data on the hospitals' servers. I always come back to the term "custody" over data. By having actual custody over ones data, this makes more sense, because what is ownership without control. If you have a car in a repair shop, it is still your property but they have custody over it. And they need to look out for it. And Solid lets you do that with your data.
    - eP: Where do you draw your line on "custody"?
    - Marc: What I like about Solid is that you have a host that keeps an arm length from the data in the Pod. Despite there being a host, you remain in control.
    - RG: There is an anology with banking system. When you put your money in the bank, it is not in your custody but you can use it at will. Bank is responsible to protect your money. Even if the POD provides anonymised access to the medical data, they are responsible for ensuring it is provided to the right person and in the right form. One may not have physical custody of data but the pod provider acts as "data fiduciary".
    - Marc: The one who has custody is responsible for it. The legal concept of "Bailment".
    - Jeff: Getting back to the data and control. The most risky data is our location, if pods would just do the location data, that would be a huge step forward. I've seen a lot of articles where the location data has been sold without people's consent. It can also be abused to exploit people.
    - Kai: In TrinPod, we have software as service where we host the data. Some of our customers prefer to host their own data 'in-hours'. There are some companies which don't allow hosting anywhere else. There is also URL, we have trinpod.eu and trinpod.us. If we don't give companies their own URL they can't move. We also offer custom url feature so customers can use their own domains. In the future we might do personal self-hosted trinpod, for now we only do it as enterprise service.
