# Solid Practitioners

## Meeting Date

2025-08-07

## Details

- call https://meet.jit.si/solid-practitioners
- chat https://matrix.to/#/#solid-practitioners:matrix.org
- repo https://github.com/solid-contrib/practitioners
- recordings https://spectra.video/c/solid_practitioners/videos

## Facilitator

- Rahul Gupta

## Scribe

- Michal & together

## Participants (please add yourself)

- [Matthias Evering](https://solidweb.me/testpro/)
- Jeff Zucker
- [Rahul Gupta](https://cxres.pages.dev/profile#i)
- [Michal](https://id.mrkvon.org)
- [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
- Frederick Gibson
- Marc Haddle
- Tom Byrd
- Wilfred Pinfold

## Agenda

- Announcements
  - Call for Scribe
  - Request recording

## Round table (Check in)

#### Matthias:

- keeping systems running,
- astonished about AI and question & AI answer, and on a learning journey. My intention was to learn a login and displaying a name.

#### Michal:

- Building app for putting public and private pins on map (https://github.com/mrkvon/solid-places)

#### Fred:

- Production for largest copper mine in US

#### Tom

- Boston and Baltimore area, food distribution projects

#### Pavlik

- Fiddling with catalog
- Feedback on SHACL to ShEx convertor
- Looking at Conformance test harness for maintainence

#### Jeff

- Working on catalog
- Went to ODI-Solid AC
- Meeting with Tom
- September meeting on Food Distribution
- Tom Byrd, Lynn Foster, Maxime Lecoq
- If you know other projects on food distribution , supply chains etc. put them in touch with me.
- I've been looking around AI to help transcribe meeting, but haven't found one that would preserve our privacy.

#### Marc Haddle

- Sea change in Medical record management
- Over the summer we've put together government & legal process how to take patient data from providers. We have pushback on that. They don't want to give you data, in machine readable format.
- HEPA compliance, ...
- Tom: Compliance has come up for us, we work with EFF (Electronic Frontiers Foundation). We've been meeting with them on small and medium enterprises regulations & border protection.
- Marc: They don't want to give it even though law is out there
- Tom: Yes, that's a challenge
- Marc: Elevating it to enforcement complaint.

## Report from first ODI Solid Advisory Committee Meeting

**Jeff Zucker**

Mostly a general introduction but also an overview of the priorities for the immediate future including :

- maintin & scale tech infrastructure (project.org, community.net)
- support core tech (SolidOS, tool sets, open source servers)
- host a non-experimental Server (ESS)
- support LWS
- onboard 200 new contributors
- create a suite of training materials
- support the catalog
- support use cases in industry, govs, & others
- identify & prioritize use cases to support
- catalyze >5 use case across >2 sectors (health, public services, etc.)
- grow open source community through global events like Solid World
- develop a monitoring/evaluation process to support advocacy
- develop advocacy materials to highlight use cases
- advocate for Solid globally

There are three open positions at ODI to support Solid. Apply!

- Rahul: Jeff, did they give some info about URL persistence?
- Jeff: AFAIK this is not a migration - community.net will continue, this is a second server
- Rahul: The question is about guarantee of data when somebody decides to migrate 5 years from now. E.g. my broken site for Solid Symposium.
- Jeff: Supporting catalog is definitely planned, and important. Please go to catalog and put your information in. If there are
- Jeff: Supporting use-cases, and they're going to look at Practitioners as a source. If you have projects as viable use-cases, I encourage you to put them in.

- elf Pavlik (chat): This could also be a venue to ask about plans for ESS
  https://github.com/solid/odi-governance?tab=readme-ov-file#solid-operations-advisory-group-formerly-solid-team

## Events Query and Events Query with Linked Data

**Rahul Gupta**

Slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qoVSzvN281an9inDOKa0uwTtZkU5JhHOWoAF9yG2f7A/edit?usp=sharing

Events Query:

- Spec: https://cxres.github.io/events-query-test/draft-gupta-httpapi-events-query.html
- Repo: https://github.com/cxres/events-query

Events Query with Linked Data:

- Spec: https://cxres.github.io/eq-ld/protocol
- Repo: https://github.com/cxres/eq-ld

IETF Recording: https://youtu.be/7MAg1EOjozE?t=2960

[Design Goals]

- eP: one of the complexities of switching protocols is authentication. If you don't switch, you can use the same auth approach (e.g. http auth header). So not switching protocol simplifies this greatly.

[slide before Discovery :)]

- eP: does QUERY supersede PREP, and Solid PREP?
- Rahul: in a way yes, I'll get to it later.

[Why not WebSockets/Webhooks etc.]

- eP: Webhooks are for a different use-case, you don't need to keep connection open.
- Rahul: Yes, Steaming HTTP is not a panacea. Other transports like WebHooks and WebPush are useful in their own niches. Solid Notifications will still remain relevant.
- eP: encouragement to make LWS WG aware
- Rahul: hesitant as long as HTTP QUERY method is not standardized due to the previous negative experiences.

[Q&A]
JZ: How can people adopt this today.
Rahul: This is extremely new work. Server Middlewares will need time to develop. Clients can consume easily with existing tooling. Welcome collabourations and contributions.
