# Solid Practicioners

2025-02-20

## Details
* call https://meet.jit.si/solid-practitioners
* chat https://matrix.to/#/#solid-practitioners:matrix.org
* repo https://github.com/solid-contrib/practitioners
* recordings https://spectra.video/c/solid_practitioners/videos

## Present
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Michal](https://id.mrkvon.org) ([SolidCouch](https://github.com/solidcouch))
* [Matthias Evering](https://solidweb.me/testpro/)
* Rahul Gupta
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* Wilfred Pinfold
* Rui Zhao
* Marc Haddle
* Fred Gibson
* Kai
* John Kirkwood

## Scribes
* Michal
* Pavlik

### Topics

#### Solid Roadmap

https://github.com/solid/roadmap
Solid World: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/2390f6e9-1e3c-4dab-89ab-512fca81fc80/
STM shaperepo: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/c2263a25-3633-4a6a-8a39-4cd38a29de33/

Round about what we want to focus on

##### Rahul

- Looking at malleable software working with solid
- looking forward to shape-repo meeting (link!), will be traveling though
- Shapes inform how interfaces get created, and I want to focus
- In March, I'll be at ITF??, so if you want to discuss something, I'll be happy to.

##### Fred Gibson

- Our priority is search API. It's a major gap for any serious use. Including types, type intersections, more sophisticated search across servers.
- eP: how to navigate over the data, is that correct?
- FG: if you look across multiple server, you'd send a separate request, but it would be able to look at all the pods at that server that user has access to. You wouldn't send request to every pod, but to every server (provider). Server would return results for all data over pods that user has access
- eP: two aspects [...]
- FG: you query server, not pods if you don't want to. It can get more sophisticated - servers may forward request to other servers, but that may be too much.
- eP: I think it would be good to prioritize this, in Practitioners, CG, WG, since this is often requested.

##### Hadrian

- I'll be focusing on WG. There are issues related to ability to run services next to data. So you don't only have server with pods, but next to it you could run algorithms, services. This appears in many services, not just search. Fred, what you said is very important. Possibility of 2 services, 1 keeps index, other searches based on the index. This is one of the objectives of the WG.
- My request for this Practitioners, if there is some interest to guide this work? Some success stories, previous development, etc? This could influence WG work.
- Other than that I'll be focusing on adoption for Solid.
- FG: we don't have specific thing for search, but we do have other services, e.g. event API that allows apps to trigger services. Search is no1 priority, and also ???

##### Marc Haddle (DataSolids)

- We have worked on use-case within health-care which are scattered across different sources, and bring this to single pod. You will only have control if you have custody of your data.
- Allows clinical trials, research, and recruiting patients for this. Scattering of data slows research and discovery down.
- We have backend and we're putting together UX. Moving data objects from sources in different data formats.
- Showcasing our solution now & developing it further.
- eP: since we're focusing on priorities, what would you see as important focus, also for CG, ...
- MH: We want to bring commercial solution for this issue.
- eP: So, you find the Solid spec drafts fitting your use-case?
- MH: We're fitting the Pod architecture very secure, vulnerability testing, identifying threat surfaces with white-hat hackers.
- MH: Solid is the only framework that allows custody of data. [...] If data are sitting in someone else's repository, you don't have control.
- Hadrian: Where can I learn more?
- MH: We put all documentation together. We want to have repeatable demo.
- Hadrian: For your interest, there are companies that think of physical devices to store data, with Solid. I'd like to reach out to you.
- MH: Yes, and that's the key element, since these longitudinal records are relatively large datasets.
- Hadrian: Sounds awesome [establishing contact]. You may know that healthcare is the most complicated use-case for storage.
- MH: yes and no. Very noisy, non-interoperable, scattered. From Compliance POV - Solid is the only thing that provides this functionality. Within privacy, all the guardrails are respected, we don't have issues with compliance since patient controls their data.
- eP: Last Practitioners meeting there was a lot of discussion about health care, have a look at the minutes.
- eP: are you using WAC or ACP, and how do you restrict access to different apps?
- MH: traffic control mechanism on backend, and also updates. We have abstraction layer as part of security protocols and we have server that load-balances the 
- eP: do you use ...
- MH: we have Solid client [...] We put abstraction layer between those two. [...] and we use WAC.
- eP: interested in diving deeper and hear whatever details you're willing to share.
- MH: we'll give a showcase when everyone ready

##### Michal

* Interested in the social aspect of Solid. For example effort to make Solid and ActivityPub interoperate https://solid.github.io/activitypub-interop/
* You mentioned application permissions, I understand how important is limiting access of clients. At the same time one person could limit access of another person if they restrict.
- eP: There is a difference between Resource Owner restricting app access and End user resricting app access.
- HZ: We are aware about this conversation in WG. When it comes to scale and Solid has to scale. You may need to deal with proxies. For example using CDNs with Solid.
* I have issue with `acl:agentGroup`. Which requires group to being public for it to work.
* eP: mentioning ongoing collaboration with ActivityPods
* FG: we have in production the idea that the group has it's own WebID and pod. It can assign permisisons and membership to the gruop. By default only things required by Solid are public in WebId, the rest is private. You can add members and keep the membership private.
* HZ: You can disclose privately that the user has access because group delegated to it without disclosing the membership.
* FG: The server is the one that is reconciling an agent group. There is no issue with public need for the group membership. The members are know to that server, the algorithm doesn't care if it's public or not. 
* eP: we are taking about the same thing
* FG: What is the IRI for the group. If the server that hosts the webid supports triple level security you can have it private. At this moment you are trying to make group
* eP: Can we have a meeting on the next CG on group-based access policies
* Hadrian: Fred, would you be able to join?
* FG: yes, happy to.
* Hadrian: I'll put it on agenda.

##### Matthias

* Continue to provide NSS and CSS and working on migration to Pivot.
* What I'm not sure, whether to use reverse proxy or not. Now I need to decide the same on Pivot. And that's what I'd like to ask the group.
* eP: I usually use, in my own setup, CSS; and I use nginx or traefic in front of it. It makes certificate setup easier. As well as takes care of HTTP/2 which IMO is a must, especially with Streaming HTTP notifications.
* Matthias: I'm on Matrix and I'll reach out for help. We'd like to run Pivot in 14 days.

##### John Kirkwood

- My priorities are in health record end of things. I'm very interested how we can use Solid for personal ownership of health data.
- eP: Since we're touching accessibility: Since everyone can choose their client, there can be accessible clients. This freedom of application choice can allow using more accessible apps. This is related to the question of who restricts clients' access to data.
- JK: Accessibility is really interesting realm, with family members who may have special needs and issues with cognition, task switching etc. [...]

##### Kai

- I'm with Fred, so it's Search API


Pavlik: Thank you everyone, and we'll meet on Solid World!
