# Solid Practitioners

## Meetng Date
* 2025-03-20

## Facilitator 
* Jeff Zucker - dubzed@gmail.com

## Scribe
* Josh Cornejo

## Participants (please add yourself)
[Marc Haddle] marc.haddle@datasolids.com
Tim BL
Jeff Zucker
Joshua Cornejo
Jesse Wright
Wilfred Pinfold
Brandon?
Jeff J
Frederick Gibson
Alain Bourgeois

## Agenda

* Announcements
    * Call for Scribe 

* New Member Check-in (brief intro, current work)  

- Frederick described his onboarding of a customer on TrinPod
- Tim provided his update about the book
- Jesse updated about the governance structure
- Brandon described their journey around the healthcare app
- Marc ready with a demo (also around healthcare) - offer to do a demo to the group if interested

- Jeff has some questions for Jesse:
-- At what point is the other advisory board going to be open? 
-- Jesse answers around the process for the selection
-- Jeff copied the link https://github.com/solid/odi-governance
-- Timbl establishes that the solid practitioners is formally part of solid project, whether that means people apply and can be elected for a role, he feels fine that people from this group can apply.
-- Jeff has no further comments

- Josh provided an update around overlaps of some parallel work around DRM and Solid
- Jesse spoke about his blog post https://blog.jeswr.org/2025/02/14/data-wallets

- Michal has problems with the microphone
- Theo has been working on an SSO bridge to create accounts with providers like Google for login, he can do a small demo
- Wilfred speaks about the open commons and its relationship/interest around Solid
- Alan Bourgeois also speaks about his piece of work and migration


### Demo (Theo)

Solid app + CSS instance + SSO component in SSO

You can log in with GitHub, google, email+password (css server), your own pod

Login with google redirects to google through CSS (303) => directly back to the application

This is the flow you're used to when you log in google/github at other places

A pod was generated with unique google identifier as pod name, you can also see RDF of the profile

https://sso-client.liquid.surf/

- Fred: A nice app, another potential approach: With trinpod, people can log in with Oracle credentials. Rather than creating temporary thing it redirects you to the webId. So you associate your webId to your SSO providers, and server then uses this association.
- Theo: Is it open-source?
- Fred: It's not, but I'm happy to show you how it works. It depends how backend authorization works. We had to modify things for it to work.

Theo: I'd love to see other approaches.

Fred: You have to trust the other provider to trust them with your webId
- Tim: You have a profile there. If I log in with the same account, will I get the same solid url? If I log in with google, do you get profile picture from google, and relay it to solid pod? Do you put data on google drive?
- Theo: Will I have the same webId? The webId generated from the subject claim from google OIDC is unique for every user. We have a prefix unique for google. In extremely rare case when two providers have the same ID, this will be fixed by prefix for each provider. This is unique.
- Profile picture: Great idea. If we can populate webId with data from google or github, maybe build a data fetcher for every provider. I have done demo with google, but github works too. Github uses OAuth, and google OIDC, so these are 2 main methods.
- Storage on google drive, I'd love to integrate that, but will to dig in a bit more.
- Alain: Would it be possible to access Pod with other app that doesn't use this SSO? Would it be possible to access the pod with any application, data browser, ... and then use the normal CSS login?
- Theo: Yes, it's totally possible, if developer is exposign CSS backend, like in my demo. I think we should not do that. If Solid app is a tetris game ad stores best store, then I could use Noel's app to store my recipe, [???]. We make pod just for the particular app for non-solid user, and in the future we'll have an option for migration. And we'll migrate the data to a Solid pod.
- Alain: If you're using the same pod, for example you have tetris, tic-tac-toe, or anything you want. All login with the same SSO, could go to the same pod, and different applications.
- Theo: Our idea si using a single Pod for a single app, so you only have data relevant to the data. But we can have an external service... I think this opens different security questions etc. There is already a related issue in the github repository.
- Tim: The power of Solid is using the same Pod for different applications.
- Theo: We're aware that what we're doing is a bit weird (I talk about it in a blog post). This component is a bit against the concept Solid. But the premise is: If I build tetris tomorrow, I'll use mongodb, etc. the traditional stack. So this is a transition step. Developers can build Solid app that is accessible for a wider audience. The premise is, to make a popular app today, I won't use Solid. So this allows use of Solid technology and reach wider audience.
- Tim: I don't understand why we can't have SSO and a single Pod for different app.
- Theo: I just wanted to build the tool. The intention is to have a step, and I'm happy to implement better flows.
- Alain: I understand your point. The current login is difficult. But migration in the future might be complicated. With migration in the future you're going to have a lot of difficulties. The data is changing.... You can do exactly same what you're doing, but using the same pod. [...]
- Tim: We can add this layer to all Solid SDKs. I want to be able to compile Solid-flix, and Media Kraken, and get all the data with the same pod.
- Theo: There is another component (css-google-auth) doing that, I put reference in GitHub. It's a different flow. I wanted to demo it today, too.
- Alain: I wasn't able to make it work.
- Theo: Yes, it's indeed a bit challenging, and documentation in Japanese. Instead of username+password you log in with google. It creates a bit cumbersome flow. I have to redirect to CSS, then to Google, then back to CSS, then pick webId, then second consent screen, then back to the tetris app. I wanted to be as close to possible to what developer is used to today, and not tax user flow more. To be straightforward.
- Alain: I think it's a great idea. But we need a way to access the pod.
- Theo: Yes, you can access the pod. You can log in with email and password.
- Alain: But you don't have the information.
- Theo: I see. It's not possible right now.
- Alain: I think one way to do it is create Pod, log in as it is, then send email with the password.
- Theo: We could add Google method to the standard CSS login screen.
- Fred: We solved this by... someone has GitHub and Google account. So when someone clicks the button, pod gets automatically created, and authenticates them with the token from Oracle. Once they're in, they can log in with [...]. User simply clicks log in, and then it puts them in our app, and it sends them welcome email. It creates the webId from the email
- Theo: Its the same here.
- Fred: It creates permanent Pod.
- Theo: I had in mind solving the issue as web developer who wants to use Solid.
- Alain: It solves exactly the same issue, it doesn't change anything. You can just use it for all applications.
- Theo: I think it's best to have this option available, then see if the developer wants to use it or not.
- Jeff: I'm thinking about an example use-case. e.g. Chat. Somebody may not want Solid Pod, but want to participate in the chat with a webId. They could log in with google, participate in the chat, and go on. This is example of participating in Solid ecosystem without buy-in of having the Solid Pod.
- Theo: Like temporary accounts?
- Jeff: Yes.
- Theo: I think it can work for this use-case, but it won't be temporary. If they log in another day, they'll still see their data. But we can have an option of temporary accout.
- Jeff: Another possibility: If you put extra step, you could have automatic way of creating the pod via yoru google login. Then it would be a pod like any other pod.
- Theo: That would be possible, but then the other component might be more useful for that. I had in mind not having more user interface and forms. I want to show demo of both flows, and when they're useful.



Jeff: Thank you all for participation, and see you in a couple weeks. And make comments on ODI governance. :)
