Solid Practitioners
Meeting Date
2026-04-02, 15:00 UTC
Details
call https://meet.jit.si/solid-practitioners
chat https://matrix.to/#/#solid-practitioners:matrix.org
repo https://github.com/solid-contrib/practitioners
recordings https://spectra.video/c/solid_practitioners/videos
Facilitator
Scribe
James Zaki
Participants (please add yourself)
[Marc Haddle] marc.haddle@datasolids.com
James Zaki
Luke Dary
Roberto S.K. Breitman
Agenda
Administrative
Call to add self to hackmd
Call for Scribe
Objections to recording the session?
New Member Check-in
Announcements
Reminder: New alternating Practitioners' meetup schedule starting next meeting
North/South meeting schedule
1st Thursday 16:00 UTC
3rd Thursday 07:00 UTC / 5pm Australian time
ODI announced creation of an implementers best practices site to hold materials explaining the protocols and tools. They have said nothing about how they will collaborate with the Practitioners to accomplish this.
I (Jeff) will be lessening my involvement with the PG - we could really use help - finding and scheduling speakers, sending out the meeting announcements, preparing summaries of meetings, posting the videos, planning the coding sessions and more. PLEASE contact me about volunteering.
The CG is again taking up the question of the WebID Profile Specification. This is a key document for implementers as it defines the basis for discovery. Anyone interested should comment on the issues, discussions, and PRs at https://github.com/solid/webid-profile.
Topics
Rosiane de Freitas will tell us about her ideas for Solid support for journalists
Notes
Initial Proposal for implementors guide - https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/773
Jeff calling out to bring people into Solid (speakers, practitioners), and to help keep the group going.
Jeff involved with WebID profile, CG taking that up.
https://github.com/solid/webid-profile
Speakers last-minute cancelled, open discussion
Rahul proposed roundtable:
Rahul teased Solidjs project will show at end
James: Building Solid into Logos.co module
Jackson: linked data browser
Luke: Using tools Sparkle, …
Marc: Looking at real-world applications with Solid, Pod. Helpful with Health data, gov initiatives around data interrop. Problem: no patient involvement, fragmented data. Soln: Aggregate data in patient's pod.
Wilfred: Portland homeless community, tracking incident data. Multiple stores, distributed/fragmented data problem. Hard for vulnerable people to navigate system. Rather than register individuals in centralised system, they have a pod. Providers (of pods?), deliver services between pods, likely AI agents. PWA providing edge services (not using pod yet due to heaviness of it). Not yet on pods, but excited for it.
Roberto: With solid for 3 years at inrupt, at theodi managing community. Preparing for solid week, getting more feedback. To get more info, may do more building later.
Jesse: Symposium tickets going well, half way to 240 person symposium. Working on Demos, eg volunteering. Volunteer profile manager, services demo, built in chatbot. Demo via screenshare. Writing imlementors guide, Shamu working on docs .. rdf, solid objects lib. Solid github org, object and shapes repos.
Jeff: WebID profile. Prep for advisory council meetings. Working on data kitchen pod-in-a-box, no-install version of solidos and more. Sub-apps: browser, ui built with instructions in rdf, rdf forms can modify. Hope to demo.
End roundtable.
Roberto presents operating model diagram
Operating model around Solid26, working with community. How to gather feedback.
Persona groups outlined for where feedback might come from
Adapting CDMC specs.
Diagram:
ODI advisory/board
Leadership - Spec/impl. makers
Working groups feed up to feedback panel
Explaining Solid resource youtube
Jeff: Clarifying practitioners. Group of individuals, involved with organisations. Large cross-over with social goods.
Roberto: “What are the use cases and key requirements for Solid in your area?”
“What key clarifications or improvements could be made to the Solid Protocol to make it easier to adopt in your area of expertise?”
Jeff: Rephrasing around "community needs"
Roberto: Understand first impressions of Solid.

Rahul: "discussed by LWS?"
Jess: Use cases collected, come from small set of participants.
Jess: Solid26 part marketing campaign, part refresh for people who may have seen it before (Letting them know about support/resources)
Eg individual user to have anon (like masterdon) for fediverse users. Bigger piece around implementation feedback and improving specs/tools.

Rahul: will documentation be public
Roberto: everyone has access to…
Jess: each working group, eg edma, setting up special interest group, gets feedback, goes into feedback panel.
Jess: Docs from working group may be able to be public (where accepted by working group)

Jeff Q
Jeff: Someone has stronger approach enterprise/academics, Practitioners have other strengths. Open source community, inclusivity.
Discussing doc, who to reach and how. Next, what to do with new devs.
How Solid practitioners can be more involved.
Roberto: getting word out

James Q
James: Structure more top-down from ODI?
Roberto: As an ODI project, needs top structure from ODI, but core more community based.

For Next Meeting if we don't have time today
Jackson's browser
