# Solid Practitioners

## Meeting Date
* 2026-02-19, 15:00 UTC

## Details
* call https://meet.jit.si/solid-practitioners
* chat https://matrix.to/#/#solid-practitioners:matrix.org
* repo https://github.com/solid-contrib/practitioners
* recordings https://spectra.video/c/solid_practitioners/videos

## Facilitator

* Michal


## Scribe

* Luke

## Participants (please add yourself)

* Jeff Zucker
* [Luke Dary](https://w3c.social/@lukedary)
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Jess Moore](https://solidcommunity.au/)
* [James Zaki](https://linkedin.com/in/jameszaki)
* [Rahul Gupta](https://cxres.pages.dev/profile#i)
* Damon Outlaw
* Stephen Taylor
* Andrealiz
* Michal
* Wilfred Pinfold
* Marc Haddle
* Jesse (ODI)
* Oli (ODI)

## Agenda

### Quick check-in (start asap)

### Administrative

* Call to add self to hackmd
* Call for Scribe
* Objections to recording the session?

* Plans for today

### New Member Check-in

* Jess: background in physicist, astronomy; government now back to R&D; Software Innovation Institute at ANU; using Flutter to interact with Solid Pods; pilot trials
* James: tech background; decentralized apps; looking for something outside the normal centralized options
* Andrealiz (chat - not able to speak): Hello all - First time at this meeting :). Not able to speak at the moment but listening in as well.
* Damon (not able to speak)

---

* Stephen (chat): Do we have a practioners contact page? My projects are all Dart (and Flutter), so it's fun to hear others focusing on that too.
* Jess (chat): happy to chat further about our libraries for Solid on Flutter - some demos here - 
https://solidcommunity.au/#portfolio

    Our `solidui` repo is designed to help one quickly spin up a Pod-based app on Flutter 
https://pub.dev/packages/solidui

    Would love the feedback and issues! 


### Announcements

- Proposal for a new alternating meeting schedule [Jeff]:
    - 7am GMT
    - 6pm AU
    - 12:30pm IND
    - 11pm US-WEST
    - or hour earlier
    - when?
- Discussion
    - Jess: thanks, once a month would be fantastic
    - Jeff: past time to bring in other geos; excited to have indigenous folks and anyone regardless of technical ability
    - Michal: what is the idea?
    - Jeff: One on EU time one on global south time
    - Rahul: suggest moving third meeting to the new schedule

- Jeff: note about comidas.gratis app work in coding session
- eP: Next [CG](https://solidproject.solidcommunity.net/glossary#CG) meeting will have Christoph presenting https://github.com/uvdsl/solid-authorization-app

### Practitioners Roadmap 2026

- Quick overview: https://hackmd.io/@solid-practitioners/Bka669EOWx
- Round: Where do you want to be with Solid by December 2026? How could our group help you get there? (1-2 min. per person)
- Formally update our audience?

#### Discussion

* Michal: talking through slides (linked above)
* Q: Where do you want to be with Solid by December 2026?
* Q: How could our group help you get there?
* Jeff: Audience group was supposed to have an onboarding group; additional group missing is library developers. Practitioners definitely welcoming to newcomers, but not necessarily for resourcing materials for them. Should not take on the task of being the sole provider of onboarding
* Jess: is it worth tying digital sovereignty into the group mission/purpose statement; making things easier and more accessible to the lay person may attract people
* James: potential to bring other strategies in
* Rahul: response to James; the more material that exists, the more is able to be generated; difficult because we'd like humans to develop the material to help enhance AI understanding of it
* Jess: (expanding on electrical movement) suburb of NSW got community together to negotiate with electrical focus, leveraged for better deals
* Rahul: asking about _how_ to use Solid?
* Jess: sharing data and digital applications have friction, esp. costs and labor efforts; Solid apps don't _need_ to scale the way a commercial app does; look to see government providing cheap storage and flow from there

---
* eP (chat): https://www.localfirst.fm/

### ODI Roadmap and relationship to Pracitioners [Jesse, Oli, Roberto]

- intro
- ODI roadmap & Practitioners
- discussion (round or open)

#### Discussion

* Oli: Introduction; new to ODI, but a couple years of Solid experience; brought on to manage Solid community development and drive adoption
* ..: looking for feedback on the roadmap and if it looks good
* Jeff: Practitioners are the only one in Solid who are looking at real-world adoption and usage; we want to focus on helping get projects working, which is slightly different than **how** Solid is working; hope that ODI can provide support; ODI & CG should be actively communicating outside of Practitioners meetings for more technical and spec-related topics
* Oli: covering roadmap slides
* "Solid 26" as a collection of artifacts ready for Solid Symposium
* Rahul: What will be in Solid 26
* JW: Subset of the specs: Solid Protocol, WebID, Solid-OIDC, Access Control Policy; best practices: verifiable credentials, best practices, container structure
* ..: Additionally other content tangential to adoption, https://www.figma.com/community/file/1569365949738320365/personal-data-store-pds-design-examples-template
* Jeff: like to hear ODI's plan to support practitioners; standards gap, training, implementor/builder engagement
* Oli: training gap is a sooner rather than later need, love the suggestion to work on gaps, question about what the PG is (professional developers or people generally looking at Solid)
* Michal: request to have roudtable to share Solid background and 
* Jeff: working on Solid resources catalog, a bunch of libraries and apps; would like to see support for the social good projects
* Luke: Split between bringing Solid to Redhat / community - many groups I participate and relevant for them, small context
  Redhat trying to capture user data & digital sovereignty within the enterprise. My vision is RedHat hosting publicly available Pods for you. Current status helping people understand what Solid is.
  From ODI, adoption, a lot of people don't know what Solid is
* Jess: scoping out a project with a first nations community; digital rights and sovereignty in the community; interested to hear more about social good applications and how ODI could assist
* Rahul: pointing out "chapters" in the [?]
* James: new to Solid; blockchain experience; wants to understand use cases; trust assumptions and other questions; "sponge mode"
* Wilfred: Portland, Oregon working with simplifying citizens and the government; state, county, metro, and city addressing homelessness; 
* Stephen: Colorado, Dart and Flutter, used Solid for a couple years; there is a sense that we are guides, and are missing a syllabus (ODI may need to provide), rotate as guides; 
* Rahul: add on that there was a discussion about mentorship, but limited time necessitates ODI providing resources to help
* Marc: health information for patient data application; sovereign data hub, making the patient the hub; ODI can help with validation and expanding awareness and providing funding
* Jeff: Damon is active in the fediverse, and excited that he could be in the meeting
* Rahul: spec author; what's up with notifications? HTTP better than RTC
* JW: Spec doesn't guarantee implementation
* Rahul: ESS already implements, but Inrupt is holding out
* JW: Linked Web Storage WG has notifications on their list
* Michal: built Solid apps and libraries; looking at ActivityPub and Solid; ODI - more opportunity to have open lines of communication; struggling with limited access;
* JW: office hours are happening, but fortnightly (every two weeks) on Tuesday 4-5pm GMT (https://solidproject.org/events)
* Michal: would like to see ODI support financially community efforts
* Jeff: +1 to resources for community efforts
* Oli: hoping that awareness and growth will also expand support
* Jeff: ODI needs to figure out the support (financial or otherwise), and how it will include the open source community
* Luke: one successful item was Dart Flight School, which provided swag and specific training materials for regional/local mini-conferences
* JW: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/10447318.2025.2545467#d1e268
* Marc: user control of data is getting attention related to AI training; users want a say in how their data is used
* James: getting paid for their data is an incentive
* Marc: creates a new asset class for the user and their data
* Oli: Brazil DWallet example around individuals, funding for social good (open call)

---

* ODI (chat): To answer Jeff's question of how to identify the education materials you need -- right now easiest option is to open an issue at 
https://github.com/solid/dev
* James (chat):Related (funding of open Ethereum protocol)-> 
https://paragraph.com/@timbeiko/protocol-guild-pledge
* ODI (chat): https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/10447318.2025.2545467#d1e268
* Damon (chat): For those at ODI I recommend building a connection with Newsmast. They are UK based and work with ActivityPub. They have done a great job of building connections and introducing the general public to the spaces: https://www.newsmastfoundation.org/
